hello and welcome to optimistic wellness
my name is Josh lovetsky today I have
something incredibly important to share
with you as a matter of fact I believe
this to be the most important blog post
that I've ever recorded to date so
please listen carefully because this has
completely changed my life now ever
since I got sick with crohn's disease i
started reading books i started getting
really into life design and behavior
change and how do we change our habits
how do we change our behavior and
through my studies i have found one word
and one concept that just completely
made everything clear to me and that is
myelination it's such a fun word to say
try myelination anyways myelination
there's a term inside neuroscience about
the myelin sheath and it is a I don't
know the exact technical term for it but
it's basically a sheath that surrounds a
neuron that helps speed up the messages
that fire between the neurons and this
myelin forms it forms when we perform a
task or a habit repeatedly over time the
habit becomes myelinated more of that
sheath forms around the neurons and
whenever it fires it just speeds up and
speeds up that's why it's so easy for us
to brush our teeth you know we don't
have to think about it we just do it
it's myelinated it's completely
myelinated but for example when I first
started this website optimistic wellness
in 2010 I did not have a habit of
posting blogs every week once a week it
was not myelinated I could go one month
one and a half months just being lazy
and not recording blog post it was not
myelinated so this understanding of
myelination has saved me so many times
in my life when I'm feeling resistance
to doing something I just I know uh-huh
that's not Milan
I gotta do it and I gotta do it every
day pretty much every day in order to
get that mile into form its I keep
talking about this but this this
understanding again has helped me out so
much it's helped me do the daily
stretches I can do a full split in all
the directions and stuff like that check
out my how deadly stretching will change
your life video that's myelination my
daily journaling routines when I review
my day and give myself a letter grade
myelination been doing that for three
years daily exercise ballet
weightlifting doing that since I was
like 13 besides the Crohn's disease it's
just all myelination so to conclude its
to a practical exercise so we can you
know really get that myelination have it
started myelination so he think of one
or two tasks or habits that you would be
really interested in pause the video in
a few seconds let me give you some
examples before you pause the video
exercise every single day I believe
that's incredibly important at least six
days a week that exercise is great daily
stretching I'm a huge proponent of that
i'm also really into studying japanese
studying the language so if there's a
language that you're really passionate
about think 30 minutes of myelination
every single day excellent another habit
daily reading I like to read for about
nowadays I'm waiting for over an hour a
day but 30 minutes a day of reading
excellent another habit the fear crusher
this is amazing and I'm going to create
a blog post in more detail about the
fear crusher but basically every night
before you go to bed write down one
thing that scares you do it the next day
revelation so pause the video now think
of one
habits that you really want to start my
lady all right now that you've got those
habits written down I wish I can give
you some more action steps but that's
pretty much it the myelination will take
care of everything for you as long as
you realize that you're going to be
facing massive resistance the first ten
days even month of that habit but after
a month it should become easier and I
can leave you with one word of advice is
this never miss a day if you miss one
day the next day after that there will
be so much resistance to doing that that
is just the myelin acting up so being
short myelination will and can change
your life thank you so much for watching
optimism it's the only way